docs: refactor install docs (#537)
lightdash/lightdash: docs/docs/get-started/setup-lightdash/install-lightdash.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Install Lightdash
---
import TOCInline from '@theme/TOCInline';

# Install Lightdash

> 

Reviewer: Would be great to add a little summary/table of contents type thing here! Suggested text (but not sure what to write for the one-click deploy bit). 

Also, I _think_ this is what the difference between local vs. production deployment is, but please correct me if I'm wrong! What I'm trying to get across here is like "here's what that means you'd be limited to doing"

```suggestion
There are three ways you can install Lightdash:
1. If you want to run Lightdash in your local machine (that means, you won't be able to share the things you build in Lightdash with anyone else), then you can [get started with our installation script](#deploy-locally-with-our-installation-script).
2. If you want to have Lightdash.... # I don't know what to write here because I'm not sure why I'd choose the 1-click deploy option!
3. If you want to be able to share your Lightdash project with your team, then you can set up a production deployment of Lightdash by following our instructions on [how to deploy Lightdash manually](#deploy-manually).
```

Author: @TuringLovesDeathMetal 
Why people would use Heroku deployments ?
- they don't wan't to run Lightdash in their machine so running in Heroku is the simplest way to try Lightdash 
- their company uses Heroku to manage their infrastructure instead of AWS/GCP/etc, so they would run their Lightdash there

Author: > What I'm trying to get across here is like "here's what that means you'd be limited to doing"
This might be a bit misleading because the limitations don't depend just on our instructions but where they are using them.
The instructions for the manual deployment can be used in any place that supports docker, being AWS/GCP or their local machine.
E.g  users can deploy Lightdash manually in their local machine, so they won't be able to share what they built.

We can only recommend what instructions to follow when developing and for production but in the end it will depend on their expertise, setup and infrastructure.

Reviewer: Okay, that's really helpful information. 

Is it accurate to say:
1. If you want to deploy Lightdash in production, you can use the instructions for the one-click-deploy with Heroku _**or**_ the manually deploy 
2. one-click deploy to Heroku is the simplest way to deploy a Lightdash project in production
3. if you want to deploy a production Lightdash instance on a cloud platform that supports docker and _**isn't**_ Heroku (e.g. AWS or GCP), then you can use our manual deploy instructions 
4. if you want to deploy Lightdash on your local machine, then you should use our install script. But, you can also use our manual deploy instructions if you're really keen.

<TOCInline toc={toc} />

## Deploy locally with our installation script

> This is the recommended way to install and run Lightdash in your local machine.

Reviewer: Again, please update if this is wrong!
```suggestion
If you only want to run Lightdash in your local machine (that means, you won't be able to share the things you build in Lightdash with anyone else), then this is how we'd recommend you install it. 
```

:::caution Production deployments

> For production deployments check the [Deploy manually](#deploy-manually) instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to be able to share your Lightdash project with your team, you'll need to create a production deployment. 

For instructions on how to set up a production deployment check the [Deploy manually](#deploy-manually) docs. (After all, data is more fun with friends 🧑‍🤝‍🧑)
```

:::

:::info

> This script is going to install docker and docker compose. If you want do use a docker alternative, see [Deploy manually](#deploy-manually) instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script is going to install Docker and Docker Compose. If you want do use a Docker alternative, see [Deploy manually](#deploy-manually) instructions.
```

:::

#### 1. Clone the Lightdash repository

Clone the Lightdash code to your local machine. This will create a new directory called `./lightdash` (the Lightdash directory).

```bash
# Clone the Lightdash repo
git clone https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash
cd lightdash
# A new directory called "lightdash" should appear
```

#### 2. Install & Launch Lightdash

:::info

> If you're using a local dbt project, during the cli, select the option **"with local dbt"**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using a local dbt project, when you're asked `how you want to setup Lightdash`, select the option **"with local dbt"**
```

and during the project creation keep the **Project directory** value as **"/usr/app/dbt"**.

:::

```bash
./install.sh
# follow cli instructions
```

----

## Deploy to Heroku

> Click to deploy the latest version of Lightdash to heroku. This provides a secure, production-ready deployment.

Reviewer: What's the difference between a production-ready deployment and a production deployment? Like, if I wanted to share my Lightdash project with my team, could I use the one-click-deploy to Heroku? Or what would I have to do to get it production-ready?

Author: > What's the difference between a production-ready deployment and a production deployment?

There isn't any difference. I can remove the `-ready` part.

> Like, if I wanted to share my Lightdash project with my team, could I use the one-click-deploy to Heroku? 

yes

#### 1. Once click deploy to Heroku

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash-deploy-heroku)

Note if you don't have an account, you'll be prompted to signup. It's free to deploy Lightdash!

#### 2. Launch Lightdash

Heroku will show that it's setting up and deploying Lightdash. When it's complete you should see an option to view
your Lightdash app.

![screenshot](../assets/heroku-success.png)

> #### 3. Setup your admin account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 3. Setup your admin account and Lightdash project
```

> As the first user for Lightdash, you'll be prompted to create an admin account to secure your instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the first user for Lightdash, you'll be prompted to create an admin account to secure your instance. Then, you'll get started with creating your Lightdash project. 

You can follow along with the instructions for setting up your Lightdash project here: #Add page to instructions for Lightdash project setup guide
```

```

#### 2. Start Lightdash container

Lightdash environment variables:

Name | Type | Default | Required | Description
---|---|---|---|---
**PGHOST** | string |  | true | Postgres hostname
**PGPORT** | number |  | true | Postgres port
**PGUSER** | string |  | true | Postgres user
**PGPASSWORD** | string |  | true | Postgres password
**PGDATABASE** | string |  | true | Postgres database name
**LIGHTDASH_SECRET** | string | | true | This is the secret used to sign the session ID cookie and to encrypt sensitive information. **Do not share this secret!**
**SECURE_COOKIES** | boolean | false | false | Secure cookies
**TRUST_PROXY** | boolean | false | false | Trust the reverse proxy when setting secure cookies (via the "X-Forwarded-Proto" header)
:::info

If you want to use a dbt project from the same machine, you will need to set a volume to **/usr/app/dbt**. Example:
`-v ~/my/dbt/path:/usr/app/dbt`

:::

```bash
# Example data:
# DB Host: 192.168.0.1
# DB Port: 5432
# DB Username: postgres
# DB Password: mysecretpassword
# DB name: postgres
# Lightdash secret: not very secret
# Lightdash port: 8080

docker run --name lightdash-app \

>     -e PGHOST=192.168.0.1 -e PGPORT=5432 \

Reviewer 2: I wonder what most setups would have here for an IP address? It all depends on the setup :/ one negative of not using docker compose

**PGPORT** | number |  | true | Postgres port
**PGUSER** | string |  | true | Postgres user
**PGPASSWORD** | string |  | true | Postgres password
**PGDATABASE** | string |  | true | Postgres database name
**LIGHTDASH_SECRET** | string | | true | This is the secret used to sign the session ID cookie and to encrypt sensitive information. **Do not share this secret!**
**SECURE_COOKIES** | boolean | false | false | Secure cookies
**TRUST_PROXY** | boolean | false | false | Trust the reverse proxy when setting secure cookies (via the "X-Forwarded-Proto" header)
:::info

If you want to use a dbt project from the same machine, you will need to set a volume to **/usr/app/dbt**. Example:
`-v ~/my/dbt/path:/usr/app/dbt`

:::

```bash
# Example data:
# DB Host: 192.168.0.1
# DB Port: 5432
# DB Username: postgres
# DB Password: mysecretpassword
# DB name: postgres
# Lightdash secret: not very secret
# Lightdash port: 8080

docker run --name lightdash-app \
    -e PGHOST=192.168.0.1 -e PGPORT=5432 \
    -e PGUSER=postgres -e PGPASSWORD=mysecretpassword \
    -e PGDATABASE=postgres -e LIGHTDASH_SECRET="not very secret" \
    -p 8080:8080 \
    -d lightdash/lightdash:latest

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

----

## Getting set up on Lightdash Cloud

Want to have a production-ready Lightdash instance, but not comfortable with self-hosting? You can [sign up to our waitlist for Lightdash Cloud.](https://hamzah905194.typeform.com/to/HFlicx4i)

With Lightdash Cloud, you get a Lightdash instance that's production-ready (so you can share all your insights with your team) but you don't have to worry about any of the setup for hosting the instance yourself. So, if you're not too sure about all of this container, Heroku and cloud-platforms business, or you're just not interested in the overhead of hosting your BI yourself, then [Lightdash Cloud](https://hamzah905194.typeform.com/to/HFlicx4i) might be a good option for you :)
```
